---
title: Syllabus
description: 'CS|DATASCI|LING-329: Computational Linguistics (Spring 2026)'
---

# Syllabus

## General

* GitHub: [https://github.com/emory-courses/nlp-essentials/](https://github.com/emory-courses/nlp-essentials/)
* Book: [http://emory.gitbook.io/nlp-essentials/](http://emory.gitbook.io/nlp-essentials/)
* Time: MW 2 - 3:45 PM
* Location: MSC W201

## Instructors

* [Jinho Choi](mailto:jinho.choi@emory.edu)
  * Associate Professor of Computer Science, Data and Decision Sciences, Linguistics
  * Office Hours and Location: MW 4:00 - 5:00 PM, Emerson Hall 500
  * GitHub: jdchoi77
* TBD
  * Ph.D. Student in Computer Science and Informatics
  * Office Hours and Location: TBD
  * GitHub: TBD
* TBD
  * Ph.D. Student in Computer Science and Informatics
  * Office Hours and Location: TBD
  * GitHub: TBD

## Grading

* Homework: 65%
* Team Project: 35%
* Your work is governed by the [Emory Honor Code](http://catalog.college.emory.edu/policies/honor-code.html). Honor code violations (e.g., copies from any source, including colleagues and internet sites) will be referred to the Emory Honor Council.
* Requests for absence/rescheduling due to severe personal events (such as health, family, or personal reasons) impacting course performance must be supported by a letter from the [Office for Undergraduate Education](https://oue.college.emory.edu).

## Homework

* Each topic will include homework that combines **concept quizzes** and **programming assignments** to assess your understanding of the subject matter.
* Assignments must be submitted individually. While discussions are allowed, your work must be original.
* Late submissions within a week will be accepted with a grading penalty of 15%. They will not be accepted after the solutions are discussed in class.

### Concept Quizzes

* Each section incorporates questions to explore the content more comprehensively, with their corresponding answers slated for discussion in the class.
* While certain questions may have multiple valid answers, the grading will be based on the responses discussed in class, and alternative answers will be disregarded. This approach allows us to distinguish between answers discussed in class and those generated by AI tools like ChatGPT.

### Programming Assignments

* You are encouraged to use any code examples and invoke APIs provided in this book.
* Feel free to create additional functions and variables in the assigned Python file. For each homework, ensure that all your implementations are included in the respective Python file located under the corresponding directory.
* Usage of packages not covered in the assigned chapter is prohibited. Ensure that your code does not rely on the installation of additional packages, as we will not be able to execute your program for evaluation if external dependencies are needed.

## Team Project

* You are expected to:
  * Form a team of 3-4 members.
  * Present a project pitch to share your proposed idea, and write a proposal report.
  * Deliver a live demonstration showcasing your working project, create a demonstration video, and write a final report documenting details about your project.
  * Provide individual feedback on other teams' presentations and demonstrations.
* Participation in **pitch presentations** and **live demonstrations** is compulsory. Failure to attend any of these events will result in a zero grade for the respective activity. In the event of unavoidable absence due to severe personal circumstances, a formal letter from the [Office for Undergraduate Education](https://oue.college.emory.edu) must accompany any excuses.

## Project Grading

* Team members receive the same grade for the pitch presentation, live demonstration, and demonstration video.
* Peer evaluations from other teams factor into your team grade.
* Your feedbacks to other teams are graded individually.

For the project and final reports, you are required to indicate the contribution percentage of each team member, which impacts the individual grades for the assignment.

### **Contribution**

If your team of two members received 4 out of 5 points, for example, and you indicate that your contribution was 60% while your teammate's was 40%, the points are distributed as follows:

* You receive: 4 (team points) ⨉ 60 (your contributions) / 60 (max contributions) = 4 points.
* Your teammate receive: 4 (team points) ⨉ 40 (your teammate's contributions) / 60 (max contributions) = 2.67 points.

This approach ensures that the grading reflects the effort and input of each team member, promoting fairness and accountability.

### **Consensus**

* Each team is required to submit a single, agreed-upon chart detailing the contribution percentages of all members for each team assignment. This means that you and your teammates must reach a consensus on the contribution rates before submitting your work.
* Open communication and transparency are essential in this process. Disagreements should be resolved within the team, ensuring that the final submission reflects the true division of labor and contributions.

By adhering to these guidelines, you not only produce a strong research paper but also develop key skills in teamwork and fair assessment of contributions.
